# CS-499 ePortfolio

## Introduction
   I started the computer science program in Southern New Hampshire University in September 2017. Originally, I started computer science at University of Maryland; however, I decided to transfer to Southern New Hampshire University. I felt the computer science program was stronger at SNHU and more up to date on their program. The first course I took in the computer science program was called CS-200: Computer Science Role in Industry. In this course, I learned the fundamentals of computer science while being introduced to Python. While I self-studied C language, Python was really the first language I learned at a university level. Ever since then I fell in love with computer science because of what I can do with it. 

## Professional Self-Assessment
   During my time in the computer science program, I’ve learned that computer science is more than just coding. Computer science in my own opinion is the study of software and hardware of the computer, which means designing and solving problems. The program has taught me vital skills that has helped me in the technology industry. I have been able to learn the standard programming languages that are used in the industry. The skills I have learned in the computer science program has helped me be proficient to where it has helped me get hired as an intern for a mental health company. 
	One skill that has helped me in the computer science program is persistence. I gained this ability when facing difficult challenges in the program, such as advance computer science topics. This perseverance has helped me not only overcome the challenges in computer science but also learn other type of skills. Another skill that I have learned in the program is the ability to have attention to detail. When writing software applications, I’ve learned how to pay attention to the source code. This is useful when reviewing source code within a team setting. For example, I can do a code review on my own source or another team members source code.
	During the computer science program, I’ve learned how to collaborate in a team environment. The skills to do this were taught during CS310 - Collaboration and Team Projects. In this course, I learned how to communicate within a team environment to complete a project. This included using Eclipse to upload and share C++ projects in Bitbucket. In CS-250 - Software Development Lifecycle, I learned not only how to communicate with the team but also with the stakeholders. The course taught me skills on how to plan and communicate clearly to the stakeholders.
	In CS260 – Data Structures and Algorithms, I learned how to develop software based on both methods. For instance, I learn how to name data and its location that could be stored in. In algorithm, I learned how to write a series of steps in the software application. The skills from this course helped me make the application in the capstone course more efficient. These courses helped me when I choose the artifact called ZooAuth.
	The artifact called ZooAuth was used to showcase my skills in data structure and algorithm. This artifact was originally retrieved from IT145 Foundation in Application Development and was modified for the capstone course. In this artifact, I demonstrability my skills by using a series of analysis algorithm, which included sorting and hash tables. For software engineer, I choose the artifact called medicalApplication, which came from CS320 - Software Test, Automation& QA. In this course, I used my skills to demonstrate my ability to solve the complexity of the program. This includes making improvement to the application and fixing the bugs in it. When I made improvements to the artifact, it ran more efficient.
	When showcasing my abilities in database, I chose the artifact called restFUL API. The application was developed by me in CS340 – Advance Programming and Concepts. The artifact was then modified in the capstone course to showcase my ability in database. I learned how to apply advance concepts when developing in Python, which allowed the application to communicate between the client and the server. Additionally, I learned how to store data into the application. 
	Each of the artifacts demonstrate my security abilities in computer science. Each of the artifacts had been reviewed and enhanced to ensure security. For instance, there were corrections made in the medicalApplication because the password itself. I added in the comment section about the password to make sure the developer knew about it. The artifact, called ZooAuth was enhanced to where the user had at least three times to access the system. If not, then the user would be forced out of the application. For restFUL API, I ensured that there was a password on there that will prevent unauthorize users from gaining access to it. 

